README.md, before:

# Reolink RLC-410-5MP IP camera

## Preamble
The Reolink RLC-410-5MP is a 2560x1920 pixel IP camera with infrared night vision, motion detection and PoE support.
The hardware of the camera is quite good (well designed metal casing, multi-layer PCB with high soldering quality).
The software is ~~bad (requiring Flash Player is not acceptable under any circumstances)~~ ok-ish, but not as bad as other cameras I've seen before.
The camera [offers](https://reolink.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Reolink-CGI-command-v1.61.pdf)
[RTMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-Time_Messaging_Protocol) and [RTSP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Time_Streaming_Protocol) video
streams. The RTSP stream suffers from various problems ("melting" and "smearing")
when used with non-Reolink video players.

![Camera casing](reolink-rlc-410-5mp-case.jpg "Reolink RLC-410-5MP case")

## Hardware

The camera uses a [Novatek NV98515](http://www.novatek.com.tw/en-global/) SoC (MIPS 24KEc V5.5
architecture, dual core with MMU, 640MHz, H.264/265 video encoding, encryption engine)
with a [Omnivision OS05A10M](https://www.ovt.com/sensors/OS05A10) image sensor. The firmware is stored on
a 16 MiB [GD25Q127C](https://www.gigadevice.com/datasheet/gd25q127c/)
[SPI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_Peripheral_Interface)
[NOR flash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_memory#NOR_flash).

There probably exist different hardware versions (image sensors) of this
camera (`if ${SENSOR} == "CMOS_SC5035M" .. elif .. "CMOS_OV4689M" .. elif .. "CMOS_OS05A10M"` - The OV4689
ist a 4MP sensor).

### Serial port

There is a `115200 8-N-1` serial port accessible via `J9`:

![Serial port](reolink-rlc-410-5mp-serial.jpg "Reolink RLC-410-5MP serial port")

## Firmware

The firmware is based on Novatek's NA51023 NVT evaluation board SDK (`U-Boot 2014.07`,
`kernel 4.1.0` and a Linux base system based on [Buildroot 2015.11.1-00003-gfd1edb1](https://buildroot.org/)).
See [U-Boot bootloader](log-u-boot.txt) and [Linux misc](log-linux.txt) logfiles for more details.

There is a [µITRON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ITRON_project)-compatible
[eCos-RTOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECos) running on CPU1 (image capturing and video encoding),
and Linux running on CPU2 (networking and web frontend application).
The eCos firmware is stored in binary files `FW98515A.bin FW98515T.bin FW98515A.ext.bin`.
Communication between the two cores is orchestrated by the `NVT IPC` framework and shared memory.

Boot process: CPU1 runs the `loader` image from partition 0 and initializes
basic I/O and RAM. CPU1 reads uboot image from partition 3 and triggers CPU2
to execute the uboot boot process. When the linux kernel image has been
started, CPU2 signals CPU1 to start image capturing.

Novatek does not release _any_ information about their products. One can find
some brief [datasheet of the NT96650](https://dashcamtalk.com/cams/mobius/Novatek%20NT96650.pdf)
and some [discussion and tools at GoPrawn forum](https://www.goprawn.com/forum/novatek-cams).

### Reolink Camera API

One can disable the OSD watermark (without flash interface) with [this small script](api-disable-watermark.sh).

Alano Terblanche has more complete [Python API implementation](https://github.com/Benehiko/ReolinkCameraAPI).

### Unpack firmware

Firmware `RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407` is available from Reolink's support website.
With [unpack-novatek-firmware.pl](unpack-novatek-firmware.pl) (Update: [pakler](https://github.com/vmallet/pakler) probably is a better option) one can download the firmware file
and extract bootloader, kernel and root filesystem:

```
$ wget -q https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20190614firmware/RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
$ unzip RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
Archive:  RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
  inflating: IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak  
$ md5sum RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
e67454a79bcd538fb96d7c8b8a742956  RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
39c51f59a94a55e0656644a6a0cfea20  IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
$
$ ./unpack-novatek-firmware.pl -w IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
Partition 0    name: loader
Partition 0 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 0  offset:     1552
Partition 0  length:    32768
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-0-loader.bin'

Partition 1    name: ext
Partition 1 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 1  offset:    34320
Partition 1  length:     2856
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-1-ext.bin'

Partition 2    name: uitron
Partition 2 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 2  offset:    37176
Partition 2  length:  3200936
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-2-uitron.bin'

Partition 3    name: uboot
Partition 3 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 3  offset:  3238112
Partition 3  length:   262664
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-3-uboot.bin'

Partition 4    name: 
Partition 4 version: 
Partition 4  offset:  3500776
Partition 4  length:        0

Partition 5    name: kernel
Partition 5 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 5  offset:  3500776
Partition 5  length:  1634625
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-5-kernel.bin'

Partition 6    name: fs
Partition 6 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 6  offset:  5135401
Partition 6  length:  6242304
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-6-fs.bin'

Partition 7    name: 
Partition 7 version: 
Partition 7  offset: 11377705
Partition 7  length:        0

Partition 8    name: 
Partition 8 version: 
Partition 8  offset: 11377705
Partition 8  length:        0

Partition 9    name: 
Partition 9 version: 
Partition 9  offset: 11377705
Partition 9  length:        0

Partition 10    name: 
Partition 10 version: 
Partition 10  offset: 11377705
Partition 10  length:        0

$ unsquashfs -d rootfs/ IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-6-fs.bin
Parallel unsquashfs: Using 4 processors
551 inodes (622 blocks) to write

[===========================================================/] 622/622 100%

created 416 files
created 82 directories
created 135 symlinks
created 0 devices
created 0 fifos

$ ls rootfs/
bin  dev  etc  home  lib  linuxrc  mnt  proc  root  sbin  sys  tmp  usr  var

$ head rootfs/etc/firmware.info 
SDK_VER="NVT_NT96660_Linux_V0.4.8"
BUILDDATE="Tue Mar 1 18:25:28 CST 2016"
```

### Compile additional software

Download [Buildroot 2015.11.1](https://buildroot.org/downloads/buildroot-2015.11.1.tar.gz)
(Novatek's SDK uses this version and newer Buildroot releases use a newer/incompatible uClibc).
Exec `make menuconfig`, select `Target options`, change `Target Architecture`
to `MIPS (little endian)` and `Target Architecture Variant` to `mips 32`.
Select `Target packages` in the main menu and select packages as needed.
Exit and `make`.

### Modify rootfs / add SSH daemon

Use [repack-reolink-rootfs.sh](repack-reolink-rootfs.sh) to repack the (read-only) rootfs on flash partition 6.
Dump squashfs with `cat /dev/mtdblock6 > /mnt/sda/mtdblock6.bin` to SD card
first. Then execute the script on your Linux workstation like this:

```
$ ./repack-reolink-rootfs.sh
551 inodes (622 blocks) to write
created 416 files
created 82 directories
created 135 symlinks
created 0 devices
created 0 fifos
'./contrib/dropbear' -> 'rootfs/usr/sbin/dropbear'
'./contrib/S99dropbear' -> 'rootfs/etc/init.d/S99dropbear'
changed ownership of 'rootfs/usr/sbin/dropbear' from root:root to 1004:1004
changed ownership of 'rootfs/etc/init.d/S99dropbear' from root:root to 1004:1004
Found a valid SQUASHFS 4:0 superblock on mtdblock6-NEW.bin.
Creation or last append time Mon Jan 27 16:42:00 2020
Filesystem size 6201.27 Kbytes (6.06 Mbytes)
Compression xz
Block size 262144
Filesystem is exportable via NFS
Inodes are compressed
Data is compressed
Fragments are compressed
Always-use-fragments option is not specified
Xattrs are compressed
Duplicates are removed
Number of fragments 23
Number of inodes 635
Number of ids 1
-rw-r--r-- 1 8650752 Jan 27 13:01 mtdblock6.bin
-rw-r--r-- 1 6352896 Jan 27 16:36 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
mtdblock6-NEW.bin file size (65536-byte aligned): 0x610000

Execute the following commands within u-boot:

fatload mmc 0 0x1000000 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
sf erase 0x6e0000 0x610000
sf write 0x1000000 0x6e0000 0x610000
reset
```

Then write the modified squashfs to NOR flash of your camera as shown in
script output:

:warning: Warning: Starting firmware version `v3.0.0.65_20071000` the flash layout has changed, you have to change start offset from `0x6e0000` to `0x620000`. Double-check first, otherwise you'll brick your device!

```
NA51023> fatload mmc 0 0x1000000 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
reading mtdblock6-NEW.bin
6352896 bytes read in 0 ms
NA51023> sf erase 0x6e0000 0x610000
SF: 6356992 bytes @ 0x6e0000 Erased: OK
NA51023> sf write 0x1000000 0x6e0000 0x610000
SF: 6356992 bytes @ 0x6e0000 Written: OK
NA51023> reset
```

There's something broken within dropbear's key initial exchange (causing a segfault). You
might need to login using `ssh -oHostKeyAlgorithms=ssh-rsa root@ipaddress`
for the very first time. I don't have time to debug this odd behaviour.

Enjoy logging in to your camera with SSH.

### Firmware versions

- [v3.0.0.136_20121100](https://home-cdn.reolink.us/files/firmware/20201211firmware/RLC-410-5MP_136_20121100.zip),
  released 2020/12/11, with GUI v1.0.266.  

- [v3.0.0.116_20103100](https://home-cdn.reolink.us/files/firmware/20201031firmware/RLC-410-5MP_116_20103102.zip),
  released 2020/10/31, with GUI v1.0.266.  
  Major GUI Update, no flash player anymore, hoorayy! Many parts of the HTML GUI have been rewritten.
  Live stream preview without flash player (Uses the [bilibili flv.js](https://github.com/Bilibili/flv.js/) HTML5 player).

- [v3.0.0.65_20071000](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200721firmware/RLC-410-5MP_65_20071000.zip),
  released 2020/07/10, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT98513]:2019-09-02`. Flash partition layout has been changed (linux rootfs start offset
  relocated from `0x6e0000` to `0x620000`, linux kernel partition size has been decreased accordingly).

- [v3.0.0.20_20052300](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200523firmware/RLC-410-5MP_20_20052300.zip),
  released 2020/05/23, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  The monolithic `dvr` app has been replaced by smaller apps (`netserver`, `onvif`, `rtsp`, ...). RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT98513]:2019-09-02`.

- [v2.0.0.647_20031401](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200314firmware/RLC-410-5MP_647_20031401.zip),
  released 2020/03/14, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT9851X]:2020-03-14`.

- [v2.0.0.448_19061407](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20190614firmware/RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip),
  released 2019/06/14, with GUI v1.0.242.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT9851X]:2019-06-14`.

- 209_18093004 and probably many older versions for which no download link is known


## Wishlist / Help

- If you find time to reverse engineer the `rtsp` application and figure out
  how the video stream is internally sourced from the eCos-RTOS, please let
  me know. One final goal would be to re-implement the `rtsp` application with an
  up to date live555 library.

- If you have access to the `NA51023` board support package (BSP) with
  `IPCAM` support, please let me know. The file is probably named
  `NA51023_BSP_20180223_IPCAM_V1.0.01.tar.bz2` or the like.

## Misc

- Reolink is a brand name of the chinese company
  [Shenzhen Baichuan Security Technology Co., Ltd.](http://www.sz-bcs.com/).

- With `get_sysinfo` debug information about the various video streams
is displayed, see [sample output](log-get_sysinfo.txt).

- The camera uses [nginx](http://nginx.org/) as web server. The RTMP stream is
orchestrated by the [rtmp-module](https://github.com/arut/nginx-rtmp-module).

- The [LIVE555 Media Server](http://www.live555.com/mediaServer/) is used
  for RTSP streaming.

- One can find various info about the [NT98515 on Lxnicks's chinese 
  website](https://lxnick.wordpress.com/tag/nt98515/).

- George Hillard has [some very interesting hard- and software findings on
  the Reolink B800](https://www.thirtythreeforty.net/posts/2020/05/hacking-reolink-cameras-for-fun-and-profit/).

- Vincent Mallet has [an advanced tool to work with .pak-files](https://github.com/vmallet/pakler).

- AT0myks has a comprehensive [archive of Reolink firmware files](https://github.com/AT0myks/reolink-fw-archive).

Commit message:

Add link to @OpenIPC project

README.md, after:

# Reolink RLC-410-5MP IP camera

## Preamble
The Reolink RLC-410-5MP is a 2560x1920 pixel IP camera with infrared night vision, motion detection and PoE support.
The hardware of the camera is quite good (well designed metal casing, multi-layer PCB with high soldering quality).
The software is ~~bad (requiring Flash Player is not acceptable under any circumstances)~~ ok-ish, but not as bad as other cameras I've seen before.
The camera [offers](https://reolink.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Reolink-CGI-command-v1.61.pdf)
[RTMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-Time_Messaging_Protocol) and [RTSP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Time_Streaming_Protocol) video
streams. The RTSP stream suffers from various problems ("melting" and "smearing")
when used with non-Reolink video players.

![Camera casing](reolink-rlc-410-5mp-case.jpg "Reolink RLC-410-5MP case")

## Hardware

The camera uses a [Novatek NV98515](http://www.novatek.com.tw/en-global/) SoC (MIPS 24KEc V5.5
architecture, dual core with MMU, 640MHz, H.264/265 video encoding, encryption engine)
with a [Omnivision OS05A10M](https://www.ovt.com/sensors/OS05A10) image sensor. The firmware is stored on
a 16 MiB [GD25Q127C](https://www.gigadevice.com/datasheet/gd25q127c/)
[SPI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_Peripheral_Interface)
[NOR flash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_memory#NOR_flash).

There probably exist different hardware versions (image sensors) of this
camera (`if ${SENSOR} == "CMOS_SC5035M" .. elif .. "CMOS_OV4689M" .. elif .. "CMOS_OS05A10M"` - The OV4689
ist a 4MP sensor).

### Serial port

There is a `115200 8-N-1` serial port accessible via `J9`:

![Serial port](reolink-rlc-410-5mp-serial.jpg "Reolink RLC-410-5MP serial port")

## Firmware

The firmware is based on Novatek's NA51023 NVT evaluation board SDK (`U-Boot 2014.07`,
`kernel 4.1.0` and a Linux base system based on [Buildroot 2015.11.1-00003-gfd1edb1](https://buildroot.org/)).
See [U-Boot bootloader](log-u-boot.txt) and [Linux misc](log-linux.txt) logfiles for more details.

There is a [µITRON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ITRON_project)-compatible
[eCos-RTOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECos) running on CPU1 (image capturing and video encoding),
and Linux running on CPU2 (networking and web frontend application).
The eCos firmware is stored in binary files `FW98515A.bin FW98515T.bin FW98515A.ext.bin`.
Communication between the two cores is orchestrated by the `NVT IPC` framework and shared memory.

Boot process: CPU1 runs the `loader` image from partition 0 and initializes
basic I/O and RAM. CPU1 reads uboot image from partition 3 and triggers CPU2
to execute the uboot boot process. When the linux kernel image has been
started, CPU2 signals CPU1 to start image capturing.

Novatek does not release _any_ information about their products. One can find
some brief [datasheet of the NT96650](https://dashcamtalk.com/cams/mobius/Novatek%20NT96650.pdf)
and some [discussion and tools at GoPrawn forum](https://www.goprawn.com/forum/novatek-cams).

### Reolink Camera API

One can disable the OSD watermark (without flash interface) with [this small script](api-disable-watermark.sh).

Alano Terblanche has more complete [Python API implementation](https://github.com/Benehiko/ReolinkCameraAPI).

### Unpack firmware

Firmware `RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407` is available from Reolink's support website.
With [unpack-novatek-firmware.pl](unpack-novatek-firmware.pl) (Update: [pakler](https://github.com/vmallet/pakler) probably is a better option) one can download the firmware file
and extract bootloader, kernel and root filesystem:

```
$ wget -q https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20190614firmware/RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
$ unzip RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
Archive:  RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
  inflating: IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak  
$ md5sum RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
e67454a79bcd538fb96d7c8b8a742956  RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip
39c51f59a94a55e0656644a6a0cfea20  IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
$
$ ./unpack-novatek-firmware.pl -w IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK.pak
Partition 0    name: loader
Partition 0 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 0  offset:     1552
Partition 0  length:    32768
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-0-loader.bin'

Partition 1    name: ext
Partition 1 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 1  offset:    34320
Partition 1  length:     2856
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-1-ext.bin'

Partition 2    name: uitron
Partition 2 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 2  offset:    37176
Partition 2  length:  3200936
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-2-uitron.bin'

Partition 3    name: uboot
Partition 3 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 3  offset:  3238112
Partition 3  length:   262664
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-3-uboot.bin'

Partition 4    name: 
Partition 4 version: 
Partition 4  offset:  3500776
Partition 4  length:        0

Partition 5    name: kernel
Partition 5 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 5  offset:  3500776
Partition 5  length:  1634625
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-5-kernel.bin'

Partition 6    name: fs
Partition 6 version: v1.0.0.1
Partition 6  offset:  5135401
Partition 6  length:  6242304
Writing output file 'IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-6-fs.bin'

Partition 7    name: 
Partition 7 version: 
Partition 7  offset: 11377705
Partition 7  length:        0

Partition 8    name: 
Partition 8 version: 
Partition 8  offset: 11377705
Partition 8  length:        0

Partition 9    name: 
Partition 9 version: 
Partition 9  offset: 11377705
Partition 9  length:        0

Partition 10    name: 
Partition 10 version: 
Partition 10  offset: 11377705
Partition 10  length:        0

$ unsquashfs -d rootfs/ IPC_51516M5M.448_19061407.RLC-410-5MP.OV05A10.5MP.REOLINK-partition-6-fs.bin
Parallel unsquashfs: Using 4 processors
551 inodes (622 blocks) to write

[===========================================================/] 622/622 100%

created 416 files
created 82 directories
created 135 symlinks
created 0 devices
created 0 fifos

$ ls rootfs/
bin  dev  etc  home  lib  linuxrc  mnt  proc  root  sbin  sys  tmp  usr  var

$ head rootfs/etc/firmware.info 
SDK_VER="NVT_NT96660_Linux_V0.4.8"
BUILDDATE="Tue Mar 1 18:25:28 CST 2016"
```

### Compile additional software

Download [Buildroot 2015.11.1](https://buildroot.org/downloads/buildroot-2015.11.1.tar.gz)
(Novatek's SDK uses this version and newer Buildroot releases use a newer/incompatible uClibc).
Exec `make menuconfig`, select `Target options`, change `Target Architecture`
to `MIPS (little endian)` and `Target Architecture Variant` to `mips 32`.
Select `Target packages` in the main menu and select packages as needed.
Exit and `make`.

### Modify rootfs / add SSH daemon

Use [repack-reolink-rootfs.sh](repack-reolink-rootfs.sh) to repack the (read-only) rootfs on flash partition 6.
Dump squashfs with `cat /dev/mtdblock6 > /mnt/sda/mtdblock6.bin` to SD card
first. Then execute the script on your Linux workstation like this:

```
$ ./repack-reolink-rootfs.sh
551 inodes (622 blocks) to write
created 416 files
created 82 directories
created 135 symlinks
created 0 devices
created 0 fifos
'./contrib/dropbear' -> 'rootfs/usr/sbin/dropbear'
'./contrib/S99dropbear' -> 'rootfs/etc/init.d/S99dropbear'
changed ownership of 'rootfs/usr/sbin/dropbear' from root:root to 1004:1004
changed ownership of 'rootfs/etc/init.d/S99dropbear' from root:root to 1004:1004
Found a valid SQUASHFS 4:0 superblock on mtdblock6-NEW.bin.
Creation or last append time Mon Jan 27 16:42:00 2020
Filesystem size 6201.27 Kbytes (6.06 Mbytes)
Compression xz
Block size 262144
Filesystem is exportable via NFS
Inodes are compressed
Data is compressed
Fragments are compressed
Always-use-fragments option is not specified
Xattrs are compressed
Duplicates are removed
Number of fragments 23
Number of inodes 635
Number of ids 1
-rw-r--r-- 1 8650752 Jan 27 13:01 mtdblock6.bin
-rw-r--r-- 1 6352896 Jan 27 16:36 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
mtdblock6-NEW.bin file size (65536-byte aligned): 0x610000

Execute the following commands within u-boot:

fatload mmc 0 0x1000000 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
sf erase 0x6e0000 0x610000
sf write 0x1000000 0x6e0000 0x610000
reset
```

Then write the modified squashfs to NOR flash of your camera as shown in
script output:

:warning: Warning: Starting firmware version `v3.0.0.65_20071000` the flash layout has changed, you have to change start offset from `0x6e0000` to `0x620000`. Double-check first, otherwise you'll brick your device!

```
NA51023> fatload mmc 0 0x1000000 mtdblock6-NEW.bin
reading mtdblock6-NEW.bin
6352896 bytes read in 0 ms
NA51023> sf erase 0x6e0000 0x610000
SF: 6356992 bytes @ 0x6e0000 Erased: OK
NA51023> sf write 0x1000000 0x6e0000 0x610000
SF: 6356992 bytes @ 0x6e0000 Written: OK
NA51023> reset
```

There's something broken within dropbear's key initial exchange (causing a segfault). You
might need to login using `ssh -oHostKeyAlgorithms=ssh-rsa root@ipaddress`
for the very first time. I don't have time to debug this odd behaviour.

Enjoy logging in to your camera with SSH.

### Firmware versions

- [v3.0.0.136_20121100](https://home-cdn.reolink.us/files/firmware/20201211firmware/RLC-410-5MP_136_20121100.zip),
  released 2020/12/11, with GUI v1.0.266.  

- [v3.0.0.116_20103100](https://home-cdn.reolink.us/files/firmware/20201031firmware/RLC-410-5MP_116_20103102.zip),
  released 2020/10/31, with GUI v1.0.266.  
  Major GUI Update, no flash player anymore, hoorayy! Many parts of the HTML GUI have been rewritten.
  Live stream preview without flash player (Uses the [bilibili flv.js](https://github.com/Bilibili/flv.js/) HTML5 player).

- [v3.0.0.65_20071000](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200721firmware/RLC-410-5MP_65_20071000.zip),
  released 2020/07/10, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT98513]:2019-09-02`. Flash partition layout has been changed (linux rootfs start offset
  relocated from `0x6e0000` to `0x620000`, linux kernel partition size has been decreased accordingly).

- [v3.0.0.20_20052300](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200523firmware/RLC-410-5MP_20_20052300.zip),
  released 2020/05/23, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  The monolithic `dvr` app has been replaced by smaller apps (`netserver`, `onvif`, `rtsp`, ...). RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT98513]:2019-09-02`.

- [v2.0.0.647_20031401](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20200314firmware/RLC-410-5MP_647_20031401.zip),
  released 2020/03/14, with GUI v1.0.261.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT9851X]:2020-03-14`.

- [v2.0.0.448_19061407](https://reolink-storage.s3.amazonaws.com/website/firmware/20190614firmware/RLC-410-5MP_448_19061407.zip),
  released 2019/06/14, with GUI v1.0.242.  
  RTSP encoder `liblive555 Version[NT9851X]:2019-06-14`.

- 209_18093004 and probably many older versions for which no download link is known


## Wishlist / Help

- If you find time to reverse engineer the `rtsp` application and figure out
  how the video stream is internally sourced from the eCos-RTOS, please let
  me know. One final goal would be to re-implement the `rtsp` application with an
  up to date live555 library.

- If you have access to the `NA51023` board support package (BSP) with
  `IPCAM` support, please let me know. The file is probably named
  `NA51023_BSP_20180223_IPCAM_V1.0.01.tar.bz2` or the like.

- The [OpenIPC](https://github.com/OpenIPC) project might be a good starting point
  for an alternative firmware, they have kernel support for other Novatek SoCs and the [OS05A10 image sensor](https://github.com/OpenIPC/firmware/tree/master/general/package/novatek-osdrv-nt9856x/files/sensor/sen_os05a10) seems to be known as well.

## Misc

- Reolink is a brand name of the chinese company
  [Shenzhen Baichuan Security Technology Co., Ltd.](http://www.sz-bcs.com/).

- With `get_sysinfo` debug information about the various video streams
is displayed, see [sample output](log-get_sysinfo.txt).

- The camera uses [nginx](http://nginx.org/) as web server. The RTMP stream is
orchestrated by the [rtmp-module](https://github.com/arut/nginx-rtmp-module).

- The [LIVE555 Media Server](http://www.live555.com/mediaServer/) is used
  for RTSP streaming.

- One can find various info about the [NT98515 on Lxnicks's chinese 
  website](https://lxnick.wordpress.com/tag/nt98515/).

- George Hillard has [some very interesting hard- and software findings on
  the Reolink B800](https://www.thirtythreeforty.net/posts/2020/05/hacking-reolink-cameras-for-fun-and-profit/).

- Vincent Mallet has [an advanced tool to work with .pak-files](https://github.com/vmallet/pakler).

- AT0myks has a comprehensive [archive of Reolink firmware files](https://github.com/AT0myks/reolink-fw-archive).
